# Crossing from Analogue to Digital
One of the things exams today suffer from (either they are pen-and-paper or
digital) is the fact that the world has changed, and is still changing. Yet the
exams remain mostly the same, even if we put them on computers. The way we work
over the years has changed greatly. Students of physics today write python
programs to visualize their findings, students of cybernetics write MATLAB to
run complex simulations, and of cause students of computer science write
programs that do anything from compile other programs to run rudimentary
artificial intelligence. When writing these, the Internet is used to lookup
large amount of related research to use as references.

Exams are supposed to test your knowledge and readiness to enter the working
force, but they do so in a bubble constrained by the fact that they are done
on pen-and-paper. No self-respecting programmer would ever implement larger
parts of their program using pen-and-paper, and if they did they likely wouldn't
care if they got the names of a few framework methods wrong, because when the
program is to be transferred to a computer, the computer will help you fix those
trivial errors. No mathematician would ever constrain himself to only using
pen-and-paper and a simple calculator when he needs to do several hundreds of
thousands of calculations.

This is not to say that pen-and-paper is useless in any way. There are many
things that are still way easier to do using pen-and-paper. Things like writing
math equations, drawing, sketching outlines of system architecture etc.
Computers and pen-and-paper have different strengths and weaknesses, and simply
taking the exams we have today and slapping them on a computer is not
necessarily serving anyone.

## Tasks Suitable for the Platform
One of the things that become possible when doing digital exams is actually
using the incredible resources that are at our fingertips. This is also in a lot
of cases much closer to what people will experience when they enter the
workforce. Digital exams offer a unique opportunity in that they can be used to
conduct tests that are completely different from what can be achieved using
pen-and-paper examinations. And in several cases, if the tasks are constructed
right, they will of themselves completely remove most ways of cheating.

For instance, an in industrial design or architecture could have students making
CAD drawings during the exam. If the system is set up correctly so that files
on the students own computer cannot be transferred (even if they can be
accessed) to the LMS then having access to local files or the Internet will be
of limited help. If we design exams in such a way that having access to the
Internet or local files does not provide any help, then there is no point in
limiting them. That being said, regardless, what parts of the Internet can be
accessed should probably be limited, because otherwise people could communicate
with eachother and collaborate on the exam.

Switching from pen-and-paper exams to digital exams is a change in paradigm, and
it's likely that in order for the change to be effective in any way or form (
except in just saving paper) a paradigm change is also required in the tasks
students are given during an exam. And while it's true that this will likely
require a large amount of work in creating new tasks, and figuring out how to
enable them during the exams, so would figuring out and setting up an exam
environment in which cheating is virtually impossible too. If the selling point
of digital exams is the fact that they are digital, then there are little point
in them.
