# Ethical Issues
As with all research pertaining with attempting to get around security systems
there is the chance that severe security issues might be discovered. Any such
discovery carries the risk of the public being alerted to ways to mitigate said
security systems, which in the case of SEB and Inspera Assessment is likely to
mean students figuring out how to cheat at the exams. In spite of this however,
it is still imperative that the research is done, because any security
vulnerability that exists is likely to be discovered at some point regardless.
As with what is the norm when doing security research, any security
vulnerabilities that is discovered will be properly disclosed to the related
parties before being publicized. As such, it becomes possible to resolve the
vulnerabilities before the information becomes available to the public. This
leads to better safety, and a better overall product.

At the same time, the role of NTNU in the relationship between NTNU, SEB and
Inspera Assessment is that of a customer (whether it is paying to use the
product or not). As such, NTNU should be privy to do security audits of the
applications it has selected for it's digital exam solution. In the case of SEB,
it's open source, and anyone can do what they want with it, therefore there
isn't much of a problem with any attacks used against it. However, Inspera is a
hosted service that runs on servers not owned by NTNU. Attempting forceful
breakins against their service might for instance prevent other people elsewhere
from taking their exams. This is obviously not desired, as such I will not be
performing any such actions without the explicit permission from Inspera
Assessment itself.
