# Motivation
Eventually, it's likely that most, if not all exams held by universities in
Norway, and likely also around the world, will be entirely digital. This changes
the well known formula of paper and pen exams, and introduces new uncertainties
to exams. While pen and paper exams has been tried and tested over the ages,
digital exams are still a fairly new concept [@Hillier2015]. Not to mention the
fact that while there are probably multiple ways one can do pen and paper exams,
the paths one can take towards digital exams are fairly limitless. Do one make
your own solution? Do you buy somebody else's? Or do you hire a contractor to
figure the whole thing out? Each of these have advantages and disadvantages.
NTNU has opted for a solution using Safe Exam Browser (SEB) to ensure that
students cannot access other resources available on their own computers, and
Inspera Assessment (Inspera) to do the presentation of exams and collection of
exam results.

There are already several studies [@Søgaard2015][@Søgaard2016] looking at how
secure Safe Exam Browser is. However, this is only one part of the solution
selected by NTNU in their digital exam solution and there are other parts that
needs to be assessed as well.

Digital exams are also a challenge in and of themselves simply because they are
new. When something has been done for ages everyone knows how it works. The
students knows what to expect, the invigilators knows what to check and the
teachers knows how to write the exams. According to a study by Hiller
[@Hillier2015], pen-and-paper exams might have become a self-reinforcing
phenomena in that students train themselves at pen-and-paper exams by using
pen-and-paper to take notes, re-write notes for revision and do test exams.
Considering how high-stakes exams can be, it's not weird that people want to
keep the status quo.

With digital the way to create, execute and grade the exam all changes. Just a
simple thing like the fact that on a written exam, the students write their
candidate number on the top of every exam paper, along with the page number, the
course id, date, etc. Granted, most of these fields are to ensure that if an
accident like someone dropping a stack of exams down a flight of stairs happen,
they can be reassembled correctly, which is no longer an issue with digital
exams. Yet the fact still remains that the invigilators knows to check that the
student signed the correct candidate number on each page. However, in a digital
exam as employed by NTNU today, there is no place to write your candidate
number, with the exception of on the paper that is brought by the invigilators
when the exam starts. On the actual exam site, you sign in using FEIDE. New
procedures, however small they might be, still has to be learned.

According to the same study by Hillier [@Hillier2015], even though a lot of the
students who partook in the study choose to write the exam using pen and paper,
amongst the ones who choose to do the exam on computer they reported several
advantages. Some of these included the ability to write faster, not having to
get pains in the wrists, ability to edit text that has already been written and
several others. Another advantage reported by the students is the fact that some
of them have bad handwriting. When writing the exam digitally, the didn't have
to worry about their grades being badly affected because the eliminator couldn't
read their hand writing.

Sindre and Vegendla [@Sindre2015] also states several strong points for digital
exams. They list advantages for all stages of the exam process. For making the
tests it would enable easier sharing of questions between learning institutions,
to the ability to include multimedia and interactive material. For executing the
test it would reduce cost due to less paper, and might make it easier to adapt
to students with special needs. And for assessment, it would make it easier to
get the answers to the graders as they could just be transmitted digitally, and
easier reading than handwritten answers. Handwriting in pen-and-paper exams
might also potentially be used to identify the student which could not happen in
a digital exam. Lastly, in an earlier paper by Hillier and Fluck [@Hillier2013]
argues that it's important to get a good computer-based way of conducting exams,
else it might prevent other positive development that could occur from adopting
digital systems in teaching and learning in general.

Another important motivational factor is the fact that preventing cheating at
high-stakes exams is incredibly important. According to a paper on the issue
[@Whitley2001] the more cheating is perceived by students as taking place, the
more likely they are themselves to cheat because they don't want to be put at
a unfair disadvantage. Another study shows that as much as 1 in 5 self-reports
having cheated on a test or examination [@McCabe2005]. According to Harpp and
Hogan [@Harpp1993], one of the problems with academic cheating is the fact that
it's hard to do anything when cheating is detected. Accusing students of
cheating can be costly, and the evidence is often not solid. This leads to
administrators being reluctant to move forward when potential cheating is
discovered. Therefore, if doable, a better approach than catching cheaters is
to make sure that cheating can't occur in the first place. Cheating might also
adversely affect the image of company/software used to prevent cheating as they
did not manage to achieve their sell-point. This might have monetary
consequences because companies/software that are perceived as having weak
cheating mitigation might not get customers.
