# Technologies
In this section I will describe the different technologies used in this report,
how different parts of them work, and how they connect together.

## Safe Exam Browser
Safe Exam Browser (SEB) is an application developed to provide what is known as
"safe environments" or more accurately controlled environments to allow students
to take the exam on their own devices. SEB is currently available for both
Windows and Mac users, and it contains several technologies to prevent users
from getting access to things they should not have access to. SEB is highly
configurable, allowing the institution/test provider to create a encrypted
configuration file which is used to start the exam. Some of the things that can
be configured:

* Whether or not users should be allowed to exit the exam midway though.
* Whether or not users should be allowed to minimize SEB during the exam (access
  other parts of their computer).
* Whether or not users should be allowed access to the internet (and if so,
  which sites).
* Whether or not SEB should block keyboard shortcuts such as `Alt+F4`.
* A password that should be known only to invigilators allowing preemptive
  exiting of the exam.
* A list of valid root certificates to allow.
* And many many more.

### Windows
The windows version of Safe Exam Browser is written in C# using the .NET
framework. It contains a separate application for running SEB and creating
configuration files. It uses XULRunner as it's browser component.

### Mac
The mac version of Safe Exam Browser is written in Objective-C using the cocoa
framework. The configuration file editor is part of the same application that
runs the browser (you have to start SEB first to edit/author configuration
files). It uses WebKit as it's browser component.

## Browser Request Hash
Browser Request Hash is a HTTP header generated by SEB and sent with every
request to any web server to validate that the user is using SEB with the right
configuration and build. SEB generates this value by first generating what it
calls a Browser Exam Key which is then concatenated with the URL of the request
and then hashed using SHA256. The Browser Exam Key itself is generated by
hashing all the files of the current running SEB instance (including it's
browser components) and then combining that with the SEB configuration file in
question. The result is then used to generated a tag using HMAC with SHA256 as
the hash function.

The Browser Exam Key is shared with any LMS with SEB support prior to the exam,
and used by the LMS to validate that the user is in fact using SEB. This is done
by taking the incoming request URL, concatenated it with the Browser Exam Key
(just as SEB does on the client side) and then hashing it with SHA256. Then the
generated request hash is checked against the request hash header transmitted
from SEB, and if they do not match the request is denied.

## SHA-256
SHA-256 is part of the SHA-2 family of cryptographic hashing algorithm. SHA
stands for Secure Hashing Algorithm. All of the SHA algorithms are what is
what is considered a one-way-function, that is, a function that only transforms
data one way. This ensures that given any hash it's prohibitively expensive to
compute the input value of any of the SHA functions given the resulting output
value. Over the years however, some of the algorithms has been discovered to
contain flaws in their algorithms that reduces their safety, however the SHA-2
family of algorithms is still considered safe.

## XULRunner
XULRunner is a deprecated [@BenjaminSmedberg][@Mozilla] Mozilla runtime package
[@Mozillaa] used to bootstrap feature rich applications such as Firefox and
Thunderbird. SEB for windows uses XULRunner as it's main browser component
to create a chromeless (or custom chromed) browser window inside the kiosk mode
frame that is SEB itself.

## WebKit
WebKit is the browser engine used by the Safari browser, which is the default
browser on both macOS and iOS. It's developed primarily by Apple and a fork of
the WebKit project named Blink is also what powers Chromium based browsers such
as Google Chrome. WebKit is easily integrated as a "browser component" into any
cocoa project. It is used by SEB to create the browser view on macs.

## Node.js
Node.js is a JavaScript runtime built on Chrome's V8 JavaScript engine
[@Node.js]. It is used to create all kinds of different applications, but was
traditionally designed to enable the usage of JavaScript on the server. Node is
used in this paper to a reverse proxy server described in a later chapter. There
is nothing specific about this proxy server that makes node a requirement, and
it could just as easily have been written in python or Java for instance, it was
simply picked because it fulfills the requirements of being cross-platform, and
I am more familiar with it than the alternatives.
